### Scope and Usage

The purpose of Municipality code is to represent the [municipality of residence](https://dvv.fi/en/municipality-of-residence) which is always registered by the Digital and Population Data Services Agency. The municipality of recidence idicates that the person has right to use certain services provided by municipality or wellbeing services county. This municipality code will also indicate in which municipality the person pays taxes.
<blockquote class="stu-note">
<p><strong>NOTE:</strong>The responsibility for organising primary care services was transferred from municipalities to wellbeing services counties 1.1.2023. This means that municipality would not be sufficient information in a case of billing wellbeing services county from using secondary care services via referral. Nevertheless the municipality code would be one way to deduce the correct wellbeing services county, if needed.</p>
</blockquote>
Municipality of residence differs from address information which represents the contact adress of the patient. In most cases the contact address is at the municipality of residence but for instance due to work location one might have separate residence which serves as a contact address. The address which corresponds to municipality of residence is in a different location.

The distiction between these two different location types is important e.g. when patient is being transferred from primary care to secondary care via referral. In these cases the secondary care unit invoices the primary care unit but patient may recieve infromation about the given care via mail to address which is not located in municipality of recidence.